docs/contributor/metrics.md, before:

# Metrics Emitted by Kyma Metrics Collector

| Metric                                                  | Description                                                                                                             |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **kmc_edp_request_duration_seconds**                    | Duration of HTTP request to EDP in seconds.                                                                             |
| **kmc_keb_request_duration_seconds**                    | Duration of HTTP request to KEB in seconds.                                                                             |
| **kmc_process_sub_account_total**                       | Number of subaccounts processed, including successful and failed.                                                       |
| **kmc_process_sub_account_processed_timestamp_seconds** | Unix timestamp (in seconds) of last successful processing of subaccount.                                                |
| **kmc_process_old_metric_published_gauge**              | Number of consecutive re-sends of old metrics to EDP per cluster. It will reset to 0 when new metric data is published. |
| **kmc_process_fetched_clusters**                        | All clusters fetched from KEB, including trackable and not trackable.                                                   |
| **kmc_skr_query_total**                                 | Total number of queries to SKR to get the metrics of the cluster.                                                       |

Commit message:

feat: New metrics for internal queues (#116)
* cleanup logging, name queue

* run wsl

* add wsl

* add metrics provider

* add missing namespace to metrics

* add cache metrics

* always record a subaccountprocessed metric

* restructure code from processing.go

* lint-fix

* metrics for kubeconfig cache

* update metrics documentation

* restore missing function

* fix tests

* fixes based on review

* lint fix

* apply @mmitoraj review comments

docs/contributor/metrics.md, after:

# Metrics Emitted by Kyma Metrics Collector

| Metric                                                  | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| ------------------------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| **kmc_kubeconfig_cache_size**                           | Number of items in the kubeconfig cache.                                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **kmc_edp_request_duration_seconds**                    | Duration of HTTP request to EDP in seconds.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **kmc_keb_request_duration_seconds**                    | Duration of HTTP request to KEB in seconds.                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **kmc_process_items_in_cache**                          | Number of items in the cache.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **kmc_process_sub_account_total**                       | Number of processings per subaccount, including successful and failed.                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| **kmc_process_sub_account_processed_timestamp_seconds** | Unix timestamp (in seconds) of last successful processing of subaccount.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **kmc_process_old_metric_published**                    | Number of consecutive re-sends of old metrics to EDP per cluster. It will reset to 0 when new metric data is published.                                                                                                                                |
| **kmc_process_fetched_clusters_total**                  | All clusters fetched from KEB, including trackable and not trackable.                                                                                                                                                                                  |
| **kmc_workqueue_depth**                                 | Current depth of workqueue.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |
| **kmc_workqueue_adds_total**                            | Total number of adds handled by workqueue.                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| **kmc_workqueue_queue_duration_seconds**                | Amount of time (in seconds) when an item stays in workqueue before being requested.                                                                                                                                                                    |
| **kmc_workqueue_work_duration_seconds**                 | Amount of time (in seconds) taken for processing an item from workqueue.                                                                                                                                                                               |
| **kmc_workqueue_unfinished_work_seconds**               | Amount of time (in seconds) already taken by the work in progress that hasn't been observed by **work_duration**. Large values indicate stuck threads. You can deduce the number of stuck threads by observing the rate at which the metric increases. |
| **kmc_workqueue_longest_running_processor_seconds**     | Amount of time (in seconds) taken by the longest running processor for workqueue.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| **kmc_workqueue_retries_total**                         | Total number of retries handled by workqueue.                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| **kmc_skr_query_total**                                 | Total number of queries to SKR to get the metrics of the cluster.                                                                                                                                                                                      |
